README.md, before:

# Init a django project

Idea is to create it with a wonderful python tool called
[cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter)

##  Install prerequisites
```
if ! ( virtualenv 2>&1 >/dev/null );then echo "ERROR: install venv, on debian/ubuntu: apt install -y virtualenv,fi";fi
virtualenv --python=python3 ~/tools/cookiecutter
~/tools/cookiecutter/bin/pip install cookiecutter
```

## Create back project

- create on gitlab your project
- then locally (replace with your values)

    ```sh
    cd ~/.cookiecutters/cookiecutter-django \
        && git fetch origin && git reset --hard origin/master \
        && cd -
    cookiecutter --no-input -f -o ~/out_dir \
        https://github.com/corpusops/cookiecutter-django.git \
        name=foo \
        tld_domain=mydomain.com \
        git_server=git.foo.com \
        git_ns=bar \
        dev_port=40001 staging_port=40003 qa_host="" prod_port=40010
    cd ~/out_dir
    # review before commit
    # for relative checkout to work, we need remote objects locally
    git commit local -m "Add deploy"
    ```

- Read [cookiecutter.json](./cookiecutter.json) for all options
-  notable options behaviors:
    - ``use_submodule_for_deploy_code=``: copy deploy submodule inside
      project for a standalone deployment (no common deploy)
    - ``py_ver=X.Yy``: python version to use
    - ``remove_cron=y``: will remove cron image and related configuration
    - ``enable_cron=``: will soft disable (comment crontab) without removing cron.
    - ``(qa|staging)_host=``: will disable generation for this env
    - ``tests_(staging|tests)=``: will disable those specific tests in CI
    - ``registry_is_gitlab_registry=y``: act that registry is gitlab based
      and use token to register image against and
      autofill ``register_user`` and ``registry_password``.
    - ``db_mode=<mode>``: one of ``postgres|postgis|mysql``
    - ``haproxy=y``: generate haproxy related jobs


## Fill ansible inventory

### Generate ssh deploy key
```ssh
cd local
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -N '' -C deploy -f deploy
```

### Generate vaults password file
```sh
export CORPUSOPS_VAULT_PASSWORD=SuperVerySecretPassword
.ansible/scripts/setup_vaults.sh
```

- Also add that variable ``CORPUSOPS_VAULT_PASSWORD`` in the gitlab CI/CD variables
- You would certainly also add ``REGISTRY_USER`` & ``REGISTRY_PASSWORD``.

### Move vault templates to their encrypted counterparts
For each file which needs to be crypted
```sh
# to find them
find .ansible/inventory/group_vars/|grep encrypt
```

### Generate vaults
Also open and read both your project top ``README.md`` and the ``.ansible/README.md``

You need to
1. open in a editor:

    ```sh
    $EDITOR .ansible/inventory/group_vars/dev/default.movemetoencryptedvault.yml
    ```
2. In another window/shell, use Ansible vault to create/edit that file without the "encrypted" in the filename and
copy/paste/adapt the content

    ```sh
    .ansible/scripts/edit_vault.sh .ansible/inventory/group_vars/dev/default.yml
    ```
3. Delete the original file

    ```sh
    rm -f .ansible/inventory/group_vars/dev/default.movemetoencryptedvault.yml
    ```

- Wash, rince, repeat for each needing-to-be-encrypted vault.
- ⚠️Please note⚠️: that you will need to put the previously generated ssh deploy key in ``all/default.yml``

## Init dev and and test locally
```sh
./control.sh init  # init conf files
./control.sh build django
./control.sh build  # will be faster as many images are based on django
```

## Push to gitlab
- Push to gitlab and run the dev job until it succeeds
- Trigger the dev image release job until it succeeds


## Deploy manually
- Deploy manually one time to see everything is in place<br/>
  Remember:
    - Your local copy is synced as the working directory on target env (with exclusions, see playbooks)
    - The ``cops_django_docker_tag`` controls which docker image is deployed.

    ```sh
    .ansible/scripts/call_ansible.sh .ansible/playbooks/deploy_key_setup.yml
    .ansible/scripts/call_ansible.sh -vvv .ansible/playbooks/ping.yml -l dev  # or staging
    .ansible/scripts/call_ansible.sh -vvv .ansible/playbooks/app.yml \
         -e "{cops_django_docker_tag: dev}" -l dev  # or staging
    ```

## Update project
You can regenerate at a later time the project
```sh
local/regen.sh  # and verify new files and updates
```

Commit message:

init symfony version based on django version

README.md, after:

# Init a symfony project

Idea is to create it with a wonderful python tool called
[cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter)

##  Install prerequisites
```
if ! ( virtualenv 2>&1 >/dev/null );then echo "ERROR: install venv, on debian/ubuntu: apt install -y virtualenv,fi";fi
virtualenv --python=python3 ~/tools/cookiecutter
~/tools/cookiecutter/bin/pip install cookiecutter
```

## Create a new Symfony project

- create on gitlab your project (empty)
- then locally generate the base files (replace with your values)

    ```sh
    # activate cookiecutter env
    . ~/tools/cookiecutter/bin/activate
    # you should have this project already cloned in ~/.cookiecutters/cookiecutter-symfony
    # refresh it (or git clone if not done yet)
    cd ~/.cookiecutters/cookiecutter-symfony \
        && git fetch origin && git reset --hard origin/master \
        && cd -
    cookiecutter --no-input -f -o ~/out_dir \
        https://github.com/corpusops/cookiecutter-symfony.git \
        name=foo \
        tld_domain=mydomain.com \
        git_server=git.foo.com \
        git_ns=bar \
        dev_port=40001 staging_port=40003 qa_host="" prod_port=40010
    cd ~/out_dir
    # review before commit
    # for relative checkout to work, we need remote objects locally
    git commit local -m "Add deploy"
    ```

- Read [cookiecutter.json](./cookiecutter.json) for all options
-  notable options behaviors:
    - ``use_submodule_for_deploy_code=``: copy deploy submodule inside
      project for a standalone deployment (no common deploy)
    - ``php_ver=X.Y``: php version to use
    - ``remove_cron=y``: will remove cron image and related configuration
    - ``enable_cron=``: will soft disable (comment crontab) without removing cron.
    - ``(qa|staging)_host=``: will disable generation for this env
    - ``tests_(staging|tests)=``: will disable those specific tests in CI
    - ``registry_is_gitlab_registry=y``: act that registry is gitlab based
      and use token to register image against and
      autofill ``register_user`` and ``registry_password``.
    - ``db_mode=<mode>``: one of ``postgres|postgis|mysql``
    - ``haproxy=y``: generate haproxy related jobs

- Push the generated files (here on `~/out_dir`) to your new project


## Fill ansible inventory

### Generate ssh deploy key
```ssh
cd local
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -N '' -C deploy -f deploy
```

### Generate vaults password file
```sh
export CORPUSOPS_VAULT_PASSWORD=SuperVerySecretPassword
.ansible/scripts/setup_vaults.sh
```

- Also add that variable ``CORPUSOPS_VAULT_PASSWORD`` in the gitlab CI/CD variables
- You would certainly also add ``REGISTRY_USER`` & ``REGISTRY_PASSWORD``.

### Move vault templates to their encrypted counterparts
For each file which needs to be crypted
```sh
# to find them
find .ansible/inventory/group_vars/|grep encrypt
```

### Generate vaults
Also open and read both your project top ``README.md`` and the ``.ansible/README.md``

You need to
1. open in a editor:

    ```sh
    $EDITOR .ansible/inventory/group_vars/dev/default.movemetoencryptedvault.yml
    ```
2. In another window/shell, use Ansible vault to create/edit that file without the "encrypted" in the filename and
copy/paste/adapt the content

    ```sh
    .ansible/scripts/edit_vault.sh .ansible/inventory/group_vars/dev/default.yml
    ```
3. Delete the original file

    ```sh
    rm -f .ansible/inventory/group_vars/dev/default.movemetoencryptedvault.yml
    ```

- Wash, rince, repeat for each needing-to-be-encrypted vault.
- ⚠️Please note⚠️: that you will need to put the previously generated ssh deploy key in ``all/default.yml``

## Init dev and and test locally
```sh
./control.sh init  # init conf files
./control.sh build symfony
./control.sh build  # will be faster as many images are based on symfony
```

## Push to gitlab
- Push to gitlab and run the dev job until it succeeds
- Trigger the dev image release job until it succeeds


## Deploy manually
- Deploy manually one time to see everything is in place<br/>
  Remember:
    - Your local copy is synced as the working directory on target env (with exclusions, see playbooks)
    - The ``cops_symfony_docker_tag`` controls which docker image is deployed.

    ```sh
    .ansible/scripts/call_ansible.sh .ansible/playbooks/deploy_key_setup.yml
    .ansible/scripts/call_ansible.sh -vvv .ansible/playbooks/ping.yml -l dev  # or staging
    .ansible/scripts/call_ansible.sh -vvv .ansible/playbooks/app.yml \
         -e "{cops_symfony_docker_tag: dev}" -l dev  # or staging
    ```

## Update project
You can regenerate at a later time the project
```sh
local/regen.sh  # and verify new files and updates
```
