{{cookiecutter.out_dir}}/README.md, before:

# Initialize your development environment

All following commands must be run only once at project installation.

## First clone

```sh
git clone --recursive {{cookiecutter.git_project_url}}
{%if cookiecutter.use_submodule_for_deploy_code-%}git submodule init # only the fist time
git submodule update --recursive{%endif%}
```

## Before using any ansible command: a note on sudo

If your user is ``sudoer`` but is asking for you to input a password before elavating privileges,
you will need to add ``--ask-sudo-pass`` and maybe ``--become`` to any of the following ``ansible alike`` commands.

## Install docker and docker compose

if you are under debian/ubuntu/mint/centos you can do the following:

```sh
.ansible/scripts/download_corpusops.sh
.ansible/scripts/setup_corpusops.sh
local/*/bin/cops_apply_role --become \
    local/*/*/corpusops.roles/services_virt_docker/role.yml
```

... or follow official procedures for
  [docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/#releases) and
  [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

## Update corpusops

You may have to update corpusops time to time with

```sh
./control.sh up_corpusops
```

## Configuration

Use the wrapper to init configuration files from their ``.dist`` counterpart
and adapt them to your needs.

```bash
./control.sh init
```

## Login to the app docker registry

You need to login to our docker registry to be able to use it:


```bash
docker login {{cookiecutter.docker_registry}}  # use your gitlab user
```

{%- if cookiecutter.registry_is_gitlab_registry %}
**⚠️ See also ⚠️** the
    [project docker registry]({{cookiecutter.git_project_url.replace('ssh://', 'https://').replace('git@', '')}}/container_registry)
{%- else %}
**⚠️ See also ⚠️** the makinacorpus doc in the docs/tools/dockerregistry section.
{%- endif%}

# Use your development environment

## Update submodules

Never forget to grab and update regulary the project submodules:

```sh
git pull{% if cookiecutter.use_submodule_for_deploy_code
%}
git submodule init # only the fist time
git submodule update --recursive{%endif%}
```

## Control.sh helper

You may use the stack entry point helper which has some neat helpers but feel
free to use docker command if you know what your are doing.

```bash
./control.sh usage # Show all available commands
```

## Start the stack

After a last verification of the files, to run with docker, just type:

```bash
# First time you download the app, or sometime to refresh the image
./control.sh pull # Call the docker compose pull command
./control.sh up # Should be launched once each time you want to start the stack
```

## Start a shell inside the {{cookiecutter.app_type}} container

- for user shell

    ```sh
    ./control.sh usershell
    ```

- for root shell

    ```sh
    ./control.sh shell
    ```

**⚠️ Remember ⚠️** to use `./control.sh up` to start the stack before.

## Run plain docker-compose commands

- Please remember that the ``CONTROL_COMPOSE_FILES`` env var controls which docker-compose configs are use (list of space separated files), by default it uses the dev set.

    ```sh
    ./control.sh dcompose <ARGS>
    ```

## Rebuild/Refresh local docker image in dev

```sh
control.sh buildimages
```

## Running heavy session
Like for installing and testing packages without burning them right now in requirements.<br/>
You will need to add the network alias and maybe stop the django worker

```sh
./control.sh stop {{cookiecutter.app_type}}
services_ports=1 ./control.sh usershell
./manage.py runserserver 0.0.0.0:8000
```

## Calling Symfony console commands

```sh
./control.sh console [options]
# For instance:
# ./control.sh console doctrine:migrations:migrate
# ./control.sh console cache:clear
# ...
```

**⚠️ Remember ⚠️** to use `./control.sh up` to start the stack before.

## Run tests

```sh
./control.sh tests
# also consider: linting|coverage
```

**⚠️ Remember ⚠️** to use `./control.sh up` to start the stack before.

## File permissions

If you get annoying file permissions problems on your host in development, you can use the following routine to (re)allow your host
user to use files in your working directory


```sh
./control.sh open_perms_valve
```

## Docker volumes

Your application extensivly use docker volumes. From times to times you may
need to erase them (eg: burn the db to start from fresh)

```sh
docker volume ls  # hint: |grep \$app
docker volume rm $id
```

## Reusing a precached image in dev to accelerate rebuilds

Once you have build once your image, you have two options to reuse your image as a base to future builds, mainly to accelerate buildout successive runs.

- Solution1: Use the current image as an incremental build: Put in your .env

    ```sh
    {{cookiecutter.app_type.upper()}}_BASE_IMAGE={{ cookiecutter.docker_image }}:latest-dev
    ```

- Solution2: Use a specific tag: Put in your .env

    ```sh
    {{cookiecutter.app_type.upper()}}_BASE_IMAGE=a tag
    # this <a_tag> will be done after issuing: docker tag registry.makina-corpus.net/mirabell/chanel:latest-dev a_tag
    ```

## Integrating an IDE

- <strong>DO NOT START YET YOUR IDE</strong>
- Add to your .env and re-run ``./control.sh build {{cookiecutter.app_type}}``

    ```sh
    WITH VISUALCODE=1
    #  or
    WITH_PYCHARM=1
    # note that you can also set the version to install (see .env.dist)
    ```

- Start the stack, but specially stop the app container as you will
  have to separatly launch it wired to your ide

    ```sh
    ./control.sh up
    ./control.sh down {{cookiecutter.app_type}}
    ```

### Get the completion and the code resolving for bundled dependencies wich are inside the container

- Whenever you rebuild the image, you need to refresh the files for your IDE to complete bundle dependencies

    ```sh
    ./control.sh get_container_code
    ```

### Using VSCode

FIXME: partie copiée des envs python, à revoir pour PHP...

- You must launch VSCode using ``./control.sh vscode`` as vscode needs to have the ``PHPPATH`` variable preset to make linters work

    ```sh
    ./control.sh vscode
    ```
    - In other words, this add ``local/**/site-packages`` to vscode sys.path.


Additionnaly, adding this to ``.vscode/settings.json`` would help to give you a smooth editing experience

  ```json
  {
    "files.watcherExclude": {
        "**/.git/objects/**": true,
        "**/.git/subtree-cache/**": true,
        "**/node_modules/*/**": true,
        "**/local/*/**": true,
        "**/local/code/venv/lib/**/site-packages/**": false

      }
  }
  ```

#### Debugging with VSCode

FIXME

## Doc for deployment on environments
- [See here](./docs/README.md)

## FAQ

If you get troubles with the nginx docker env restarting all the time, try recreating it :

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml up -d --no-deps --force-recreate nginx backup
```

If you get the same problem with the {{cookiecutter.app_type}} docker env :

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml stop {{cookiecutter.app_type}} db
docker volume rm ICIUnNom-postgresql # check with docker volume ls
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml up -d db
# wait fot database stuff to be installed
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml up {{cookiecutter.app_type}}
```

Commit message:

Docs and local database port mapping

{{cookiecutter.out_dir}}/README.md, after:

# Initialize your development environment

All following commands must be run only once at project installation.

## First clone

```sh
git clone --recursive {{cookiecutter.git_project_url}}
{%if cookiecutter.use_submodule_for_deploy_code-%}git submodule init # only the fist time
git submodule update --recursive{%endif%}
```

## Before using any ansible command: a note on sudo

If your user is ``sudoer`` but is asking for you to input a password before elavating privileges,
you will need to add ``--ask-sudo-pass`` and maybe ``--become`` to any of the following ``ansible alike`` commands.

## Install docker and docker compose

if you are under debian/ubuntu/mint/centos you can do the following:

```sh
.ansible/scripts/download_corpusops.sh
.ansible/scripts/setup_corpusops.sh
local/*/bin/cops_apply_role --become \
    local/*/*/corpusops.roles/services_virt_docker/role.yml
```

... or follow official procedures for
  [docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/#releases) and
  [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

## Update corpusops

You may have to update corpusops time to time with

```sh
./control.sh up_corpusops
```

## Configuration

Use the wrapper to init configuration files from their ``.dist`` counterpart
and adapt them to your needs.

```bash
./control.sh init
```

## Login to the app docker registry

You need to login to our docker registry to be able to use it:


```bash
docker login {{cookiecutter.docker_registry}}  # use your gitlab user
```

{%- if cookiecutter.registry_is_gitlab_registry %}
**⚠️ See also ⚠️** the
    [project docker registry]({{cookiecutter.git_project_url.replace('ssh://', 'https://').replace('git@', '')}}/container_registry)
{%- else %}
**⚠️ See also ⚠️** the makinacorpus doc in the docs/tools/dockerregistry section.
{%- endif%}

# Use your development environment

## Update submodules

Never forget to grab and update regulary the project submodules:

```sh
git pull{% if cookiecutter.use_submodule_for_deploy_code
%}
git submodule init # only the fist time
git submodule update --recursive{%endif%}
```

## Control.sh helper

You may use the stack entry point helper which has some neat helpers but feel
free to use docker command if you know what your are doing.

```bash
./control.sh usage # Show all available commands
```

## Start the stack

After a last verification of the files, to run with docker, just type:

```bash
# First time you download the app, or sometime to refresh the image
./control.sh pull # Call the docker compose pull command
./control.sh up # Should be launched once each time you want to start the stack
```

You may need some alteration on your local `/etc/hosts` to reach the site using
domains and ports declared in docker.env

For example if you have:

```bash
grep ABSOLUTE docker.env
  ABSOLUTE_URL_SCHEME=http
  ABSOLUTE_URL_DOMAIN=foobar.local
  ABSOLUTE_URL_PORT=8009
```

The project should be reached in http://foobar.local:8009 and foobar.local must resolve to 127.0.0.1.

## Start a shell inside the {{cookiecutter.app_type}} container

- for user shell

    ```sh
    ./control.sh usershell
    ```

- for root shell

    ```sh
    ./control.sh shell
    ```

**⚠️ Remember ⚠️** to use `./control.sh up` to start the stack before.

## Run plain docker-compose commands

- Please remember that the ``CONTROL_COMPOSE_FILES`` env var controls which docker-compose configs are use (list of space separated files), by default it uses the dev set.

    ```sh
    ./control.sh dcompose <ARGS>
    ```

## Rebuild/Refresh local docker image in dev

```sh
control.sh buildimages
```

## Running heavy session
Like for installing and testing packages without burning them right now in requirements.<br/>
You will need to add the network alias and maybe stop the django worker

```sh
./control.sh stop {{cookiecutter.app_type}}
services_ports=1 ./control.sh usershell
./manage.py runserserver 0.0.0.0:8000
```

## Calling Symfony console commands

```sh
./control.sh console [options]
# For instance:
# ./control.sh console doctrine:migrations:migrate
# ./control.sh console cache:clear
# ...
```

**⚠️ Remember ⚠️** to use `./control.sh up` to start the stack before.

## Run tests

```sh
./control.sh tests
# also consider: linting|coverage
```

**⚠️ Remember ⚠️** to use `./control.sh up` to start the stack before.

## File permissions

If you get annoying file permissions problems on your host in development, you can use the following routine to (re)allow your host
user to use files in your working directory


```sh
./control.sh open_perms_valve
```

## Docker volumes

Your application extensivly use docker volumes. From times to times you may
need to erase them (eg: burn the db to start from fresh)

```sh
docker volume ls  # hint: |grep \$app
docker volume rm $id
```

## Reusing a precached image in dev to accelerate rebuilds

Once you have build once your image, you have two options to reuse your image as a base to future builds, mainly to accelerate buildout successive runs.

- Solution1: Use the current image as an incremental build: Put in your .env

    ```sh
    {{cookiecutter.app_type.upper()}}_BASE_IMAGE={{ cookiecutter.docker_image }}:latest-dev
    ```

- Solution2: Use a specific tag: Put in your .env

    ```sh
    {{cookiecutter.app_type.upper()}}_BASE_IMAGE=a tag
    # this <a_tag> will be done after issuing: docker tag registry.makina-corpus.net/mirabell/chanel:latest-dev a_tag
    ```

## Integrating an IDE

- <strong>DO NOT START YET YOUR IDE</strong>
- Add to your .env and re-run ``./control.sh build {{cookiecutter.app_type}}``

    ```sh
    WITH VISUALCODE=1
    #  or
    WITH_PYCHARM=1
    # note that you can also set the version to install (see .env.dist)
    ```

- Start the stack, but specially stop the app container as you will
  have to separatly launch it wired to your ide

    ```sh
    ./control.sh up
    ./control.sh down {{cookiecutter.app_type}}
    ```

### Get the completion and the code resolving for bundled dependencies wich are inside the container

- Whenever you rebuild the image, you need to refresh the files for your IDE to complete bundle dependencies

    ```sh
    ./control.sh get_container_code
    ```

### Using VSCode

FIXME: partie copiée des envs python, à revoir pour PHP...

- You must launch VSCode using ``./control.sh vscode`` as vscode needs to have the ``PHPPATH`` variable preset to make linters work

    ```sh
    ./control.sh vscode
    ```
    - In other words, this add ``local/**/site-packages`` to vscode sys.path.


Additionnaly, adding this to ``.vscode/settings.json`` would help to give you a smooth editing experience

  ```json
  {
    "files.watcherExclude": {
        "**/.git/objects/**": true,
        "**/.git/subtree-cache/**": true,
        "**/node_modules/*/**": true,
        "**/local/*/**": true,
        "**/local/code/venv/lib/**/site-packages/**": false

      }
  }
  ```

#### Debugging with VSCode

FIXME

## Doc for deployment on environments
- [See here](./docs/README.md)

## FAQ

If you get troubles with the nginx docker env restarting all the time, try recreating it :

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml up -d --no-deps --force-recreate nginx backup
```

If you get the same problem with the {{cookiecutter.app_type}} docker env :

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml stop {{cookiecutter.app_type}} db
docker volume rm ICIUnNom-postgresql # check with docker volume ls
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml up -d db
# wait fot database stuff to be installed
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-dev.yml up {{cookiecutter.app_type}}
```
